We have identified 10 trends that will shape the future of 
critical networks and influence the distribution of value and the 
future competitive landscape within the industry ecosystems.Industry trends
Shaping the future of critical networks 

1 Open architectures and Open RAN
We see increased activities towards open network architectures,  
most notably Open RAN (radio access network) with the O-RAN 
alliance. Open RAN aims at splitting a base transceiver station (BTS) 
into its subcomponents with open interfaces and introduces a new 
network function, RAN Intelligent Controller. The subcomponents can 
then be provided by different suppliers. CSPs currently experiment 
with the objective to build and nurture the open ecosystem and 
diversify their supplier base.
2 Cloud RAN
Cloud RAN refers to all or some of the baseband functions being run 
on a commercial-off-the-shelf (COTS) computing platform rather  
than purpose-built hardware. The objective is to benefit from cloud 
computing efficiencies and the pooling of resources. Its adoption  
will be dependent on the cost-efficiency of COTS platforms,  
fiber build-out and the availability of hosting data centers.
3 Private wireless networks
Large industrials are enhancing their operational technology networks 
with the target of connecting their infrastructure and devices, often  
in a wireless manner. This enables the collection and aggregation of 
operational data, which in turn is used to improve overall productivity. 
We currently see players in enterprise verticals building their own 
private 4G/5G networks complementing their wi-fi and fixed networks 
and expect this trend to continue.4 Edge cloud
To advance digitalization and automation, there is demand for  
specific workloads to move from the central cloud to be closer to the 
application due to the required low latency. The on-premise enterprise 
edge is best suited to serve privacy-oriented, mission-critical use 
cases. The remaining low latency use cases can be served at the  
Wide Area Network (WAN) termination site.
5 Hybrid cloud
Hybrid cloud is emerging as a strong enabler for accelerating digital 
transformation. Enterprises adopting hybrid cloud models benefit 
from public cloud (multi-cloud) services, augmented by traditional  
IT systems and privacy-oriented private clouds. In this context, 
enterprises or CSPs as their WAN providers have brought the  
large cloud providers (Amazon Web Services, Microsoft Azure,  
Google Cloud Platform) in their WAN.
6 As-a-Service delivery and business models
With as-a-Service (aaS) business models predominant for software 
applications in enterprise, CSPs have started migrating their IT apps  
to public clouds and consuming them aaS. This development is also 
increasing in network software. For network functions like 5G Core, 
CSPs will likely use a phased approach with software migrating to  
a cloud deployment model (hybrid) first, before transitioning to  
an aaS business model. We expect that in the mid- to long-term,  
most network software and network functions will be consumed  
in an aaS model.
7 Coherent routing
Pluggable coherent 400G optics, optimized line systems and network 
automation will enable the next generation of IP/Optical network 
evolution primarily for point-to-point router connections (DCI). 
Aggregation and backbone networks will leverage reconfigurable 
optical add-drop multiplexer (ROADM)-optimized IP topologies to 
optimize for performance and cost.
8 Infrastructure sharing
CSPs are seeking to optimize their cost and asset structure, which 
leads to network sharing initiatives and spin-offs. The emergence 
of neutral hosts is supported by government broadband initiatives 
and capital from infrastructure funds. The neutral host model will 
take different forms depending on the market context. We expect 
predominantly passive infrastructure sharing with some expansion 
into active fiber and metro edge compute across the mid-term 
time frame.9 Non-terrestrial networks
Non-terrestrial networks are under disruption from technology-driven 
performance and cost improvements and the emergence of the Low 
Earth Orbit (LEO) deployment model. We expect the non-terrestrial 
networks to be mainly complementary to terrestrial networks in terms 
of coverage in low population density areas.
10 System-on-a-Chip (SoC)
SoCs provide a source of competitive differentiation on performance, 
cost and power. Industry and use case specific workloads leverage 
custom SoCs that provide the required performance at optimal total 
cost of ownership. Software applications will be redesigned to take 
advantage of hybrid SoC-based and commoditized x86-based 
platforms. We expect the build-out of the edge and the migration  
of workloads to hybrid cloud architecture to influence the timing  
of bespoke SoC utilization. The industry perspective changes  
from x86 for all workloads towards use case driven bespoke processor 
and accelerators.